Update! We hear your feedback on character and guild names loud and clear, we
knew this would be a very painful point but felt that the overall long term
health of the play experience would outweigh it.

But! Late last night we did realize there was more we could do here.

The following realms will now Free Character Transfer to five new destination
realms that are pre-connected to Pagle.

Faerlina → Nazgrim Mankrik → Galakras Benediction → Ra-den Atiesh → Lei Shen
Whitemane → Immerseus

Character names and guild names are all unique on each realm, but all realms
will be connected together able to join other guilds on other realms in the
group and raid, dungeon and PvP together.

We hope that this solution will give everyone as much opportunity to secure the
names that they have come to cherish.

These realms will be open and waiting for you with the character moves on
Tuesday 23rd after realms go Live after maintenance.

Update! We hear your feedback on character and guild names loud and clear, we
knew this would be a very painful point but felt that the overall long term
health of the play experience would outweigh it.

But, late last night we did realize there was more we could do here utilizing
some of the Connected Realm process.

The following realms will now Free Character Transfer to five new destination
realms that are pre-connected to Mirage Raceway.

Firemaw → Shek’zeer Gehennas → Garalon Golemagg → Norushen Pyrewood Village →
Hoptallus

All previously closed realms will still direct to Mirage Raceway.

Character names and guild names are all unique on each realm, but all realms
will be connected together able to join other guilds on other realms in the
group and raid, dungeon and PvP together.

We hope that this solution will give everyone as much opportunity to secure the
names that they have come to cherish.

These realms will be open and waiting for you with the character moves on
Wednesday 24th when realms go Live after maintenance.

The other realms not listed have been closed for some time and have very few
players left on them, I unfortunately couldn’t justify creating whole new realms
for the handful of players left on them. They have been closed so long that
anyone left on them is likely seeking a solo experience and unlikely to move
anyway, as they could have done anytime in the last few years. I hope that
clears up why they weren’t listed!

View Original The expensive part of Connected Realms is the database work to
consolidate everyone’s data, this is the part that we we love to do for you but
just do not have the time, it is a very old and expensive process in time and
manpower that we just can’t pull off here.

This route creates a connected realm like environment that people can transfer
themselves into with each realm having a different destination hopefully
ensuring everyone can secure their existing names.

Hey folks,

We’ve been reading through your feedback and we have some things we’d love to
try and clarify as well as some updates on a few things we’re doing to make this
as frictionless as we can within the time constraints we have.

In no particular order!

    What the heck are Connected Realms?

If you’re joining us for the first time, you may have missed when we performed
realm connections in mainline World of Warcraft, and also in Vanilla Era.
Connected Realms are a way for us to join realms in such a way that players on
multiple realms can exist in the same physical space, they can raid together,
join each others guilds, everything! Players on a Connected Realm will see a
“-BobsRealm” amended to theirs or others names in the world denoting which realm
they are from. The easiest way to think of this is a Surname in WoW.

    Why aren’t you just doing Connected Realms with our existing realms, what is the point of these new realms?

Great question, we’ve mentioned before that Connected Realms would be the ideal
solve here, but that it is just not a possibility for us. In full transparency
mode, the reason is time, Connected Realms is a massive endeavor for us. It is
something we’ve done …3? times in WoWs history and it is a massive task that
involves a ton of bespoke work by our Database Engineers and usually months of
QA testing time as we go through rounds of internal test connections and data
validation. It is one of the most expensive (in terms of raw man hours) things
we’ve ever done so while it does solve the problem of not having to move
characters and guilds yourselves, it is just a massive chunk of work that the
Server team cannot pick up as we are very busy with the largest most database
heavy feature in WoWs history (hello Player Housing!) I understand this isn’t
likely the answer you would like to hear but hopefully some transparency as to
why helps.

So how can you connect these new realms then? Connected Realms to players is one
thing, to the development team Connected Realms is a project that involves
moving around and manipulating a massive amount of player data, but the other
part of Connected Realms involves something we haven’t actually spoken about
publicly which is Virtual Realms. As part of Connected Realms, the old realms
become “Virtual” and are now hosted by a “Native” realm, this means they no
longer run on their own hardware, they run on the Native realms hardware (Pagle
in the US for example). These Virtual Realms behave just like a normal realm,
you can see them in the Realm List, you can make characters on them, you can
make Guilds on them, but since they are all sharing one parent Native Realm, all
of them can talk to one another, group, raid, join guilds across the realms. So
to solve the issue with players losing their character names during this realm
consolidation process, by utilizing multiple new Virtual Realms, we can achieve
a Connected Realm like state, give everyone an empty realm that has no blocked
player or guild names on it, but without the crazy time consuming part involving
the database moves.

We dropped a lot of new terms and tech names there you’ve not heard before, so
the shorter recap is -

These new realms are pre-connected, and importantly, totally empty of players!
This means we can avoid the large chunk of work that we can’t facilitate for you
(the actual realm moves of your characters and guilds) but still give each of
the larger realms a new realm to Free Transfer to that will have all of your
character names and guild names available to you on.

    Are you still going to be ‘freeing’ names up as mentioned earlier before the Connected/Virtual realm news?

Yes! We will still be bringing in the date that we consider accounts to be
inactive and any names they have on them become eligible to be used by other
players instead. Normally this date is several expansions ago as we do not like
the shock it can cause to lose a name you have had for a long time, but for
Classic Mists of Pandaria we will use a much more recent time to give maximum
chance everyone still playing can get the names they desire. This will apply to
all the existing realms such as Pagle, Grobbulus as well as the closing realms.

    When exactly are the servers going live so I can secure my names?

Since it is a patch day, we won’t have a concrete answer on this, as you know we
tend to post maintenance windows for patch days at 8 hours, but that can vary
significantly depending on how the deploy goes. We’re very aware that this means
a lot of uncertainty around when people need to be available to try and ensure
they secure their names, also in Europe the patch time is significantly earlier
in the morning than the US posing other problems.

We’re taking this seriously as everyone has strong connections to their names
they have often had for the entire lifetime of Classic, so we are going to do
our best to ensure that you are as close to as possible guaranteed your name on
your servers destination realm. To do that, we are going to be closing character
creation entirely on the destination realms for at least one week, likely two,
depending how fast we see everyone moving. What does this mean in practice? If
you try and create a new character on these realms, well, you can’t. The only
way to get onto the destination realms is by performing a Free Character
Transfer, which means you must already have the name you want on the character
you are moving on your original realm. No one can take your name from you on the
destination until we re-enable free-for-all character creation again.

We do not want to keep this lock in place any longer than we have to as it does
create an impenetrable barrier to any new players coming in during this window,
but we feel like this solution will ensure we can preserve your names for you
for at least the first week. During this time we will continue to allow new and
existing players to create characters on the original source realms, after we
have finished with this character creation block on the destination realms, we
will close the old realms to new players.

    What are you doing about the Australian realms?

We mentioned previously but for now we are leaving the AU realms out of this
process as a move to the US realms does result in a significant increase in
latency, as such we want to ensure that the AU community overwhelmingly wants to
move before we take action here.

    Will you open transfers off Grobbulus?

At this time no, Grobbulus has a stable but relatively small population (by
comparison, it would be a queued OG Vanilla realm!) and we would like to see how
many people take the chance to join this unique environment first. If Grobbulus
reaches a state where no one is having fun anymore, we will take action and
offer free transfers off but we would like to wait and see how things settle
first.

    Re-creating a Guild is incredibly painful and expensive with bank tabs and achievements, reputation etc.

We definitely feel that, we are going to be making some temporary changes to try
and make this transition a little less painful for everyone! With this weeks
restarts the following changes will go live.

    Removed achievement requirements for heirlooms.
    Removed achievement requirements for purchasing the banner.
    Removed achievement requirements for purchasing 8th bank tab.
    Removed reputation requirement to buy a renown guild tabard
    Temporary buff to guild reputation (100% increase).
    Temporary reduced cost for guild bank tabs.

We were not able to find a solution to persisting Guild Achievements through
characters moves in the time available, but hopefully removing some of the
requirements to some of the player power/cosmetics that were attached to them
will help make this less painful

We hope that this has helped address some of your concerns, but we appreciate
that ultimately this change is not without a lot of friction. We are confident
that the end result will be nothing but net positive for the rest of Mists of
Pandaria.

Have a great weekend and we’ll see you on Tuesday!
